Revamp LLM landing page (#14361)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/llms/index.mdx

sidebar_position: 5
---

import { Card, LogoCard, CardGroup, PageCard, SmallLogoCard } from "@site/src/components/Card";
import { APILink } from "@site/src/components/APILink";

# LLM / GenAI

LLMs (Large Language Models) have become essential in machine learning, enabling tasks like natural language understanding and code generation. However, fully leveraging their potential often involves complex processes of managing many moving pieces such as prompts, LLM providers, frameworks, knowledge base, tools, and more.

<details>
  <summary>Expand to See More about Key Challenges in LLM / GenAI Development</summary>

  ##### Complexity in Compound AI Systems

  LLMs are often integral parts of larger, compound AI systems that incorporate multiple models, tools, prompts, and other components. With the rise of autonomous agents, the system's control flow becomes more dynamic and complex. Effectively managing such systems requires well-defined processes and specialized tools to handle their intricacies.

  ##### Rapidly Evolving Industry

>   The GenAI industry is evolving at a fast pace, with new models, tools, and libraries emerging daily. Keeping track of versions and managing dependencies is crucial to maintaining the stability and reproducibility of AI systems.

Reviewer: Non-blocking suggestion: What do you think about adding a timeline graph of release cadence (simple x:y timeseries plot) that shows the push rate of package updates to LangChain over the last year and a half, superimposed with the release cadence of, say, PyTorch? 
I think a graphic representation that captures the 'fast moving nature' of this field would be compelling :)

Author: That's a great suggestion! Lemme draw sth and add to this block!

</details>

**MLflow's Support for LLMs** aims to alleviate these challenges by introducing a suite of features and tools designed with the end-user in mind.

## Tutorials

Interested in learning how to leverage MLflow for your GenAI projects?
## Why Choose MLflow?

Look in the tutorials and guides below to learn more about interesting use cases that could help to make your journey into leveraging GenAI a bit easier!
- **🪽 Free and Open** - MLflow is **open source** and FREE. Avoid vendor lock-in and secure your ML assets on your own choice of infrastructure. You can invest in the most critical business goals without worrying about the cost of the MLOps platform.

Note that there are additional tutorials within the ["Explore the Native LLM Flavors" section below](#explore-the-native-llm-flavors), so be sure to check those out as well!
- **🛠️ Native Cloud Integration** - MLflow is not only self-hosting, but also offered managed service on Amazon SageMaker, Azure ML, Databricks, and more. This allows you to getting started quickly and scale easily within your existing cloud infrastructure.

<CardGroup>

>   <PageCard link="/llms/chat-model-intro/" headerText="Custom GenAI Models with ChatModel" text={["Learn the basics of creating custom chat models using MLflow's ", <code>ChatModel</code>, " by wrapping a local LLM provider."]} />

Author: Although having actionable quick tutorials at the very beginning is super important, the current list of tutorials does not feel suitable for getting started - each of them focuses on particular feature only. For example, if ppl starts with the [chat model tutorial](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/llms/chat-model-intro/index.html) which is currently put as the first card, they will not realize our major offerings like tracing, evaluation, native flavors.

We should instead add a tutorial that is quick enough but still covers major selling points.

(btw these tutorials are still accessible via feature-wise page)

Reviewer: 100% agreed

> - **🤝 15+ GenAI Framework Support** - MLflow integrates with more than a dozen of GenAI libraries, including OpenAI, LangChain, LlamaIndex, DSPy, and more. This allows flexibility in choosing the right tool for your use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **🤝 15+ GenAI Framework Support** - MLflow integrates with more than a dozen GenAI libraries, including OpenAI, LangChain, LlamaIndex, DSPy, and more. This allows flexibility in choosing the right tool for your use case.
```

![LLM products](/images/llms/llm-products.png)

### Experiment Tracking

> Experiment Tracking is a core fundamental of MLflow platform, allowing you to organize many assets and artifacts during your LLM/GenAI projects, such as models, prompts, traces, metrics, in a single place. [➡︎ Learn more](/tracking)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiment Tracking is a core fundamental feature of the MLflow platform, allowing you to organize many assets and artifacts during your LLM/GenAI projects, such as models, prompts, traces, metrics, in a single place. [➡︎ Learn more](/tracking)
```

<details>
  <summary>Key Benefit of Experiment Tracking</summary>

  - **Single Source of Truth**: MLflow serves as a centralized location for storing and managing all your LLM assets, including models, prompts, and traces, ensuring that you have a single source of truth for your projects.

  - **Better Collaboration**: Experiment Tracking allows you to share your work with your team members, enabling them to reproduce your results and provide feedback.

>   - **Lineage Tracking**: MLflow captures the lineage of your LLM assets throughout the different stages of the project , allowing you to trace back to the source of your models, prompts, and other artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Lineage Tracking**: MLflow captures the lineage of your LLM assets throughout the different stages of the project, allowing you to trace the lineage of your models, prompts, and other artifacts.
```

  - **Comparative Analysis**: MLflow enables you to compare different versions of your LLM models, prompts, and other assets, helping you make informed decisions and improve the quality of your LLM applications.

  - **Governance and Compliance**: With the central repository of machine learning assets in your organization, MLflow helps you maintain governance and compliance standards, ensuring that your important assets are accessible only to authorized users.

</details>

<Card>
![Experiment Tracking](/images/llms/experiment-tracking.png)
</Card>

### Tracing / Observability

> MLflow Tracing ensures LLM observability in your GenAI applications by capturing LLM calls and other important details, including retrieval, tool calls, allowing you to monitor and get deep insights into your applications. [➡︎ Learn more](/llms/tracing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow Tracing ensures LLM observability in your GenAI applications by capturing LLM calls and other important details, such as document retrieval, data queries and tool calls, allowing you to monitor and get deep insights into the inner workings of your applications. [➡︎ Learn more](/llms/tracing)
```

<details>
  <summary>Key Benefit of MLflow Tracing</summary>

  - **Debugging**: Traces provide a detailed view for what happens beneath the abstraction layer, helping you quickly identify and resolve issues in your LLM applications. With the native integration with **Jupyter Notebook**, MLflow offers a seamless debugging experience.

  - **Inspect Quality**: After evaluating your models or agents with [MLflow Evaluation](#evaluation), you can analyze the auto-generated traces to understand the behavior of your LLMs and make informed decisions.

  - **Production Monitoring**: Traces are essential for monitoring the performance of your LLMs in production. MLflow Tracing allows you to identify bottlenecks and performance issues in production, enabling you to take corrective actions and continuously optimize your applications.

>   - **OpenTelemetry**: MLflow Traces are compatible with OpenTelemetry,, an industry-standard observability framework, allowing you to integrate with popular observability tools like Prometheus, Grafana, and Jaeger for advanced monitoring and analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **OpenTelemetry**: MLflow Traces are compatible with OpenTelemetry, an industry-standard observability framework, allowing you to integrate with popular observability tools like Prometheus, Grafana, and Jaeger for advanced monitoring and analysis.
```

  - **Framework Support**: MLflow Tracing supports 15+ GenAI libraries, including OpenAI, LangChain, LlamaIndex, DSPy, Anthropic, Amazon Bedrock, and more. With just adding **one line of code**, you can start tracing your LLM applications built with these libraries.

</details>

<Card >
![Tracing Gateway Video](/images/llms/tracing/tracing-top.gif)
</Card>

### Model Packaging

> MLflow's model packaging empowers you to manage moving pieces of GenAI systems, including prompts, LLM parameters, fine-tuned weights, with frozen dependency versions. This allows you to manage experiment with high **reproduceability**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow's model packaging empowers you to manage moving pieces of GenAI systems, including prompts, LLM parameters, fine-tuned weights, along with frozen dependency versions. This allows you to manage experimentation with high **reproduceability**.
```

<details>
  <summary>Key Benefit of Model Packaging in MLflow</summary>

  - **Reproducibility**: MLflow ensures that all dependencies are captured and frozen during model packaging, ensuring that your models can be reproduced consistently across different environments.

  - **Versioning**: MLflow models are versioned and registered to the [MLflow Model Registry](/model-registry) before production deployment, allowing you to keep track of fast-evolving models and assets with ease.

  - **Native Support for Popular Packages**: Standardized interfaces for tasks like saving, logging, and managing inference configurations.

>   - **Unified prediction APIs**: MLflow models can be loaded as a convenient `PyFunc` wrapper that exposes a consistent `predict()` API, regardless of the underlying library. This simplified the process of evaluation and deployment of LLMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Unified prediction APIs**: MLflow models can be loaded as a convenient `PyFunc` wrapper that exposes a consistent `predict()` API, regardless of the underlying library. This simplifies the process of evaluation, deployment, and production use of GenAI systems.
```

>   - **Model Signature**: MLflow's [model signature](/models#model-signature) feature allows you to define the input and output schema of your model and additional parameters, making it easier to understand the model and share it with others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Model Signature**: MLflow's [model signature](/models#model-signature) feature allows you to define the input, optional parameters, and output schema of your model, making it easier to understand how to interface with the model and share it with others.
```

</details>

> MLflow provides native integration for model packaging for major GenAI libraries. Is your favorite library not in the list below? No worries, you can package arbitrary model/agent using the MLflow's `PythonModel` framework. Click the icon below to learn more about each integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow provides native integrations for model packaging with major GenAI libraries. Is your favorite library not in the list below? No worries, you can package arbitrary model/agent using the MLflow's `PythonModel` framework. Click the icon below to learn more about each integration.
```

  </SmallLogoCard>
  <SmallLogoCard link="/llms/dspy">
    <span>![DSPy Logo](/images/logos/dspy-logo.png)</span>
  </SmallLogoCard>
  <SmallLogoCard link="/llms/transformers">
    <span>![HuggingFace Logo](/images/logos/huggingface-logo.svg)</span>
  </SmallLogoCard>
  <SmallLogoCard link="/llms/sentence-transformers">
    <span>![SentenceTransformers Logo](/images/logos/sentence-transformers-logo.png)</span>
  </SmallLogoCard>
  <SmallLogoCard link="/models#promptflow-promptflow-experimental">
    <span>![PromptFlow Logo](/images/logos/promptflow-logo.png)</span>
  </SmallLogoCard>
  <SmallLogoCard link="/llms/chat-model-intro">
    <b>Custom Packaging with PythonModel / ChatModel</b>
  </SmallLogoCard>
</CardGroup>

### Evaluation

MLflow's LLM Evaluation is designed to simplify the evaluation process, offering a streamlined approach to compare foundational models, prompts, and compound AI systems. [➡︎ Learn more](/llms/llm-evaluate)

<details>
  <summary>Key Benefit of MLflow LLM Evaluation</summary>

  - **Simplified Evaluation**: Leverage MLflow's <APILink fn="mlflow.evaluate" /> API and built-in harnesses to test your GenAI models with ease.

>   - **LLM-as-s-Judge**: MLflow provides built-in LLM-as-a-Judge metrics with flexible configuration for judge LLM providers, allowing you to plugging-in complex evaluation criteria into automated evaluation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **LLM-as-a-Judge**: MLflow provides built-in LLM-as-a-Judge metrics with flexible configuration for judge LLM providers, allowing you to plug-in complex evaluation criteria into automated evaluation process and to evaluate in bulk.
```

  - **Customizable Metrics**: Beyond the provided metrics, MLflow supports a plugin-style for custom scoring, enhancing the evaluation's flexibility.

  - **Comparative Analysis**: Effortlessly compare foundational models, providers, and prompts to make informed decisions.

>   - **Deep Insights**: Traces are automatically generated for the evaluation run, allowing you to get deeper insights on the evaluation result and fix quality issues with confidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Deep Insights**: Traces are automatically generated for evaluation runs, allowing you to get deeper insights on evaluation results and fix quality issues with confidence.
```

</details>

<Card >
![LLM Evaluate Video](/images/llms/llm-evaluate.gif)
</Card>

### Model Serving

> MLflow models, once packaged, can be deployed easily to different targets including Kubernetes cluster, cloud providers (Amazon SageMaker, Azure Machine Learning), Databricks, and any serving infrastructure based on Docker container. [➡︎ Learn more](/deployment) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow models, once packaged, can be deployed easily to different targets including Kubernetes clusters, cloud providers (Amazon SageMaker, Azure Machine Learning), Databricks, and any serving infrastructure that is based on Docker containers. [➡︎ Learn more](/deployment) 
```
